Hi this is Laura Turner and today I'm going
to talk to you about how to write an ode.
An ode is the poem that is addressed to raise
up loftily a person or an object. First what
you want to do is you want to decide what
you'll like to write your ode about. And by
doing that you need to find something that
you are passionate about that you would like
to spend several lines with writing a poem
on. I have chosen today as an example, the
poem, the ode, ode on a Grecian urn by Keats.
And what we'll do is we'll actually look at
this and I'm going to show you the proper
format for making an ode. Because that' s
one thing that I really can do, what I can't
do is I can't tell you what you want to write
about. So standard format for this kind of
a poem is to write ten lines stances in this
particular ABABCDECDE format. And as we see
here, with ode on a Grecian urn, thou still
unravish'd bride of quietness. The first line
rhymes with the third line. Silvan historian,
who canst thus express. So quietness , express.
The second line, thou foster child of silence
and slow time is a B rhyme or the second word
that is going to rhyme in the poem, rhymes
with the fourth line, a flowery tale more
sweetly than our rhyme. So time, rhyme, quietness,
express. And as we go down through the poem
we see shape, shape rhyming actually, cause
we have to skip to get to the C again. Escape,
so if we see how that works both, loathe,
Arcady, ecstasy. And so we see how we don't
have to rhyme with every other line. We can
actually skip around a little bit and it gives
the poem a kind of nice shape to it in that
it's not just you know rat, bat, cat, sat,
mat, right. That it's actually playing with
words, so you want to give yourself the opportunity
to free yourself with this rhyme and not use
it as something that is constraining you.
Because I think it really does seem like a
very fun rhyme to write in. And you can actually
make your ode as long as you would like. I
have read odes that are as long as whole entire
books. But probably a good length you know,
would be whatever you would like it to be.
So go ahead and have fun writing your ode.